197  CATALOGUS STELLARUM

An index of stars in the vicinity of Earth, their attributes and proper names.
197  ACAMAR (‡•ü‡§ö Eridani) Bleak, white binary pair, the members of which have not spoken for five gigayears.
200  ACHERNAR (‡•ü‡§î Eridani) Held by Yule to be a line-of-sight cognate of ACAMAR, which led to the rediscovery and abandonment of Old Earth.
200  ACRUX (‡•ü‡§î Crucis) A hot, blue-white binary with a characteristic Tropic‡§•‡§Ålia spectrum, expected to end its life in a bossa nova.
201  ACUBENS (‡•ü‡§î Cancri) A rare "white blood star" or stellar phage, part of the Galaxy's immune defence system. Not to be approached.
201  ADHARA (‡•ü‡§ó Canis Majoris) Blue star with high ultraviolet emissions, sacred to dinosaurs.
202  ADHIL (‡•ü‡§† Andromedae) Orange giant, its appearance was compared by Herschel to that of "a giant Orange".
202  AIN (‡•ü‡§ó Tauri) Mature, unblinking star with the disquieting property of seeming to "follow" the observer around the Galaxy.
202  AL BALI (‡•ü‡§ó Aquarii) White star surrounded by a disk of debris, suggesting the hypothesis that it is inhabited by five-year-olds.
202  AL HURR (‡•ü‡§ù Aurigae) This G-type star's spectrum shows enhanced levels of manganese, zinc, thiamine and soluble fibre.
202  AL KALB AL RAI (‡§∞Å‡§§‡§ë Cephei) Pretentious A-class star, though to have been moved into line with ‡§∞Å‡§§‡§õ Cephei as part of a real-estate scam.
203  AL KALBAIN (‡•ü‡§ú Tauri) Capital star of the Hyades cluster, esteemed for its cultured and diligent bureaubots.
203  AL KURUD (‡•ü‡§ö Columbae) Chief of the Apes, a group of stars in the process of budding from a common ancestor.
203  AL MAAZ (‡•ü‡§ó Aurigae) Victim of an interest cascade, its unusual eclipses caused by clouds of probes sent to investigate its unusual eclipses.
203  AL MINCHIR AL ASAD (‡•ü‡§ú Leonis) K-type dwarf, companion with biosphere spectral fingerprint VBR9188EA5F ("dinosaur planet")
204  AL NAIR (‡•ü‡§î Gruis) Smooth A-type star, free from superfluous prominences.
204  AL NASL (‡•ü‡§ï Sagittarii) K-type giant used as a staging host ("the Arrow's Tip") by the stellar alchemists.
204  AL NIYAT (‡§∞É Scorpii) Triple star, companion with biosphere spectral fingerprint OOO566AA012 ("ghost planet")
204  AL RISCHA (‡•ü‡§î Piscium) Steam star, created in the twenty-first cosmic year by a now-vanished race of host plasms.
205  AL SHARAS (‡•ü‡§ë Crateris) White giant star, home to a species of sessile, multi-eyed sentient plants, the ‡•ü‡§ë Crater Potaters.
205  AL SUHAIL AL MUHLIF (‡•ü‡§ù Velorum) Irregular variable which has used up the hydrogen in its core, expanded, and, frankly, let itself go.
205  AL THALIMAIN POSTERIOR (‡•ü‡§õ Aquilae) Immense, fluffy star, prized for its beautiful feathery prominences, once hunted to near-extinction.
205  AL THALIMAIN PRIOR (‡•ü‡§ù Aquilae) Furiously rotating blue dwarf star, obscured by dense clouds of silicon.
222  ALAMAK (‡•ü‡§ï Andromedae) Quadruple system, early member of the Skein, an unpopular hard-wired galactic communications network.
222  ALATHFAR (‡•ü‡§û Lyrae) The so-called "Siren Star", swarms with dragons who find its hard gamma spectrum irresistible.
223  ALBIREO (‡•ü‡§ë Cygni) It is not known whether the components of this orange-blue binary are truly orbiting or if they are just good friends.
223  ALCHIBA (‡•ü‡§î Corvi) White, moderate star with companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint GBS1AAF6563 ("utopia (toga) planet")
224  ALCOR (80 Ursae Majoris) Hemispherical star, left incomplete for three cosmic years due to a zoning dispute.
224  ALCYONE (‡•ü‡§ô Tauri) Beautiful blue giant surrounded by a circumstellar gas disk, three dwarf companions and a herbaceous border.
225  ALDAFAR (‡•ü‡§ô Lyrae) Believed to be the image of ALATHFAR (‡•ü‡§û Lyrae) in a reflective nebula.
225  ALDEBARAN (‡•ü‡§î Tauri) Benevolent orange giant, known for its relaxed and tolerant culture.
226  ALDERAMIN (‡•ü‡§î Cephei) Dessert star which has left the Main Sequence, fusing glucose into long-chain carbohydrates and caramels.
226  ALDHAFERA (‡•ü‡§ò Leonis) Dapper giant whose prominences braid themselves into elegant curlicues.
227  ALDHANAB (‡•ü‡§ï Gruis) Member of the class of exasperating binaries, which move behind their companion star when observed.
227  ALDIBAIN (‡•ü‡§ô Draconis) One of the only stars to have been colonised, by an incredibly persistent race of renobots.
228  ALFIRK (‡•ü‡§ë Cephei) Triple system with hesitant, jerky proper motion, implying a nearby unseen stellar predator.
228  ALGENIB (‡•ü‡§ï Pegasi) Large green star which was constructed from a pea as a demonstration of the Banach-Tarski Paradox.
228  ALGIEBA (‡•ü‡§ï Leonis) Double giant system, planetary companion with biosphere spectral fingerprint RRRAAA560AA ("pirate planet")
228  ALGOL (‡•ü‡§ë Persei) Celestial lighthouse, its evil reputation is a galactic race memory of the brutal slavery used in its construction.
229  ALGORAB (‡•ü‡§ñ Corvi) Spindle-shaped star with a star-shaped profile, viewed from Earth. Believed to be a fruiting body of some kind.
229  ALHENA (‡•ü‡§ï Geminorum) Pulsating star, believed to be the rejected core of a dying supergiant.
229  ALIOTH (‡•ü‡§ó Ursae Majoris) Chromium-rich star, serves as the galactic magnetic pole in the metal cultures.
229  ALKAFZAH (‡§∞á Ursae Majoris) Capital star of Ursa Major, with a long tradition of representative magnetohydrodynamics.
230  ALKALUROPS (‡•ü‡§û Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Dub star with an oscillating core of dark matter, used by the stellar alchemists to transmit funky frequencies.
230  ALKES (‡•ü‡§î Crateris) K-type giant with companion with biosphere spectral fingerprint YIY55A38642 ("cowboy planet")
230  ALKURAH (‡•ü‡§† Cephei) Has the appearance of a white giant; thought by Struve and others to be a white spot on a far larger object.
231  ALNILAM (‡•ü‡§ó Orionis) Blue giant and celestial omphalos, dreaded in galactic culture as a scar on the heavens.
231  ALNITAK (‡•ü‡§ò Orionis) Head office of the Orion supernova works. Approaching this star is not recommended due to high demiurgic activity.
231  ALPHARD (‡•ü‡§î Hydrae) Capital star of the neighbourhood known as The Star, leading to its grandiloquent nickname "The Star of the Star".  
232  ALPHEKKA (‡•ü‡§î Coronae Borealis) One of the second pair of line-of-sight cognates used by Yule to identify Old Earth. See also ACHERNAR.
232  ALPHEKKA MERIDIANIA (‡•ü‡§î Coronae Australis) Old Earth, the moon of a gas giant orbiting a pulsar, lies midway between this star and ALPHEKKA.
232  ALSAFI (‡§∞É Draconis) G-class swarf, a fragment left over from the machining process of a much larger star.
248  ALSCIAUKAT (31 Lyncis) Rare example of a feline species developing technological civilisation, due to an absence of hominid servants.
248  ALSHAIN (‡•ü‡§ë Aquilae) Sacred in the heavens of all worlds inhabited by winged creatures, home to the first swan consort.
249  ALSHAT (‡•ü‡§ü Capricorni) Blue dwarf star with companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint XXXEE98012A ("pleasure planet")
249  ALTAIR (‡•ü‡§î Aquilae) Celestial form of the Trickster deity in exile, the eagle consort. Known for its rapid rotation.
250  ALTAIS (‡•ü‡§ñ Draconis) Yellow giant, the famed Space Elephants' Graveyard. Note that space elephants are a myth, tourists may be disappointed.
250  ALTARF (‡•ü‡§ë Cancri) K-giant, whose inhabitants worship reason and are involved in a bitter conflict with those of ‡•ü‡§ù Leonis (the "Tarf Wars")
251  ALTERF (‡•ü‡§ù Leonis) K-giant, whose inhabitants worship reason and are involved in a bitter conflict with those of ‡•ü‡§ë Cancri (the "Terf Wars")
251  ---INTERMISSION due to INCLEMENT ELECTROMAGNETIC CONDITIONS---
251  ---NORMAL SERVICE WILL RESUME IN SEVERAL DAYS---
252  ALUDRA (‡•ü‡§ô Canis Majoris) Leader of a pack of tough blue giants whose motto is "Live fast, die young and leave a beautiful nebula."
252  ALULA AUSTRALIS (‡•ü‡§† Ursae Majoris) "Herschel's Palindromic Binary," thought at first to move back and forth rather than round and round.
252  ALULA BOREALIS (‡•ü‡§ü Ursae Majoris) K-type giant whose spectrum features strong loneliness and melancholy-alpha emission lines.
252  ALYA (‡•ü‡§ö Serpentis) Binary pair of A-type dwarf stars, one good and one evil, locked in a gravitational and moral stalemate.
253  ALZIRR (‡•ü‡§† Geminorum) Large F-class star which is moving off the Main Sequence, "not before time", according to its parent cluster.
253  ANCHA (‡•ü‡§ö Aquarii) G-type star whose inhabitants, a race of mystic pedants, insist that their planets are moons of a long-vanished primary.
253  ANGETENAR (‡§∞Ñ‡§§‡§ë Eridani) Not to be confused with ‡§∞Ñ‡§§‡§õ, ‡§∞Ñ‡§§‡§ï, ‡§∞Ñ‡•àÅ‡§ñ, ‡§∞Ñ‡•àÅ‡§ó, ‡§∞Ñ‡•àÅ‡§ò, ‡§∞Ñ‡•àÅ‡§ô, ‡§∞Ñ‡•àÅ‡§ö or ‡§∞Ñ‡•àÅ‡§õ Eridani, which were cloned from it in a replicator outbreak.
253  ANKAA (‡•ü‡§î Phoenicis) Quark star surrounded by an accretion disk of malodorous curds.
254  ANTARES (‡•ü‡§î Scorpii) Immense, irregular giant. Dark forms, none alike, move with ritual slowness over its vast red terraces.
254  APAMI-ATSA (‡•ü‡§ö Virginis) Refreshing teal giant whose spectrum indicates the presence of water, carbon dioxide and phosphoric acid.
254  APOLLYON (‡•ü‡§õ‡§§‡§õ Scorpii) Glossy black star which appears to shine solely by reflected light.
254  ARCTURUS (‡•ü‡§î Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Important local hub of stellar alchemy, inhabited by a race of incredibly tendentious demiurges.
255  ARKAB POSTERIOR (‡•ü‡§ë‡§§‡§ë Sagittarii) F-type giant, companion with biosphere spectral fingerprint HOL0045A966 ("hillbilly planet")
255  ARKAB PRIOR (‡•ü‡§ë‡§§‡§õ Sagittarii) Home to an order of Clone Monks, one of the few celibate religious communities with an overpopulation problem.
255  ARM (‡•ü‡§ô Capricorni) Binary system whose planet has a figure-8 orbit about both stars and was depopulated in the Calendar Wars.
255  ARNEB (‡•ü‡§î Leporis) Progressive star with a warm, analogue spectrum. Its pastel chromosphere is a breeding-ground for dragons.
256  ARRAKIS (‡•ü‡§û Draconis) Not to be confused with the fictional planet of CANOPUS. Don't ask the locals about sandworms. Really, just don't.
256  ASAFJKERIU (‡•ü‡§ò Capricorni) Barium star whose name is thought to be due to a scribal error, later officially adopted as a publicity stunt.
256  ASCELLA (‡•ü‡§ò Sagittarii) Binary system located at a point of torsion on the galactic animal.
256  ASELLUS AUSTRALIS (‡•ü‡§ñ Cancri) Known as ARKUSHANANGARUSHASHUTU to the Babylonians, its heliacal rising marked the end of the Scrabble harvest.
257  ASELLUS BOREALIS (‡•ü‡§ï Cancri) "Ghost star", site of high demiurgic activity several cosmic years ago, now metal-depleted and forlorn.
257  ASELLUS PRIMUS (‡•ü‡§ö Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Funk star which is fusing bass nuclei from lighter elements, forming a set of rhythmic shells around its core.
257  ASELLUS SECUNDUS (‡•ü‡§õ Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Non-radially pulsating star with a companion that orbits on the downbeat, transmitting a rock-steady rhythm.
257  ASELLUS TERTIUS (‡•ü‡§ú Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Rapidly rotating variable star in which hemiola fusion gives rise to intricate celestial crossbeats.
258  ASMIDISKE (‡•ü‡§† Puppis) Home to a race which has transcended on a timeshare basis and lives in aloof discorporate bliss every other Wednesday.
258  ASPIDISKE (‡•ü‡§õ Carinae) White giant whose fourth planet is home to a race of respectable, hardy and decorative sentient plants.
258  ATIK (‡•ü‡§° Persei) Located at the intersection of sixteen different species' television broadcasts, its inhabitants speak only in catchphrases.
258  ATLAS (27 Tauri) A star built by libertarian AIs in which radiation from furious debate is balanced by the weight of government subsidies.
258  ATRIA (‡•ü‡§î Trianguli Australis) Home to a race of geometroids with the most stable stools and least stable relationships in the Galaxy.
259  AULAD AL THIBA (‡•ü‡§ù Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Dwarf star of low metallicity, where "metal" is used in its astrophysical sense of any music harder than doo-wop.
259  AUVA (‡•ü‡§ñ Virginis) Deteriorating red giant with prominent sunspots and a bad infestation of space lice.
259  AVIOR (‡•ü‡§ó Carinae) Named by the RAF in the 1930s, this binary star is one of the only two celestial systems on the Civil List.
260  AZELFAFAGE (‡§∞Ä‡§§‡§õ Cygni) Intermittently variable star with high velocity, trailing behind it a series of expanding nebulae or "faffs".
279  AZHA (‡•ü‡§ô Eridani) Beguiling object referred to in ancient songs as the "Double Helix". A mature star which has commenced jazz fusion.
279  BAADE'S STAR (PSR B0531+21) Cosmic hatchling, the result of one of the most celebrated birth events in recent millennia.
279  BAHAM (‡•ü‡§ö Pegasi) A-class dwarf with companion showing biosphere spectral fingerprint YDRA00C1000 ("gangster planet")
280  BARNARD'S STAR (Proxima Ophiuchi) Nearby monad of the galactic animal, interference with this object triggered the disastrous Phage War.
280  BASEL (‡•ü‡§ñ Persei) Imprisons a local warrior deity: the worlds his bones, the moons his teeth, yea, the comets his streaming hair.
281  BATENTABAN AUSTRALIS (‡§∞Ü Draconis) The "Southern Drumhead"; a resonant volume stretched over the mouth of an abandoned wormhole.
281  BATENTABAN BOREALIS (‡§∞á Draconis) The "Northern Drumhead" (see BATENTABAN AUSTRALIS): now in a state of disrepair and infested by dragons.
281  BEEMIM (‡§∞Ö‡§§‡§ë Eridani) Home to immortal microbes whose vastly prolix language has only two words, "beemim" and "theemim" ("open" and "close").
282  BEID (‡•ü‡§°‡§§‡§õ Eridani) Home system of the poet Kem, its native idioms are used Galaxy-wide, for reasons as beid as the tholes on one's snowth.
282  BELLATRIX (‡•ü‡§ï Orionis) B-type giant, home to a warrior race who have learnt new ways since the stronger females were wiped out by plague.
282  BENETNASCH (‡•ü‡§ô Ursae Majoris) Rare example of a brown giant, an unpopular class of star with a formidable stellar wind.
282  BETELGEUSE (‡•ü‡§î Orionis) Magnificent stellar bonfire, the inrushing past light-cone of its detonation is already having strange local effects.
283  BETRIA (‡•ü‡§ë Trianguli Australis) Fussy F-class star with three planets, each of which has three moons, each of which has three rings.
283  BIRDUN (‡•ü‡§ó Centauri) B-class giant which pulsates steadily due to opacity hysteresis, from dark to quite sheer (&lt;40 denier)
283  BIRHAN ISAT (5 Tauri) K-giant orbited by Shun, home planet of the Hidden Masters. Open all hours, bookings essential for groups.
283  THE BLAZE STAR (T Coronae Borealis) Recurrent nova which is thought to contain the imprisoned soul of a cosmic temptress.
284  BOGARDUS (‡•ü‡§ö Aurigae) Binary system with planetary companion showing biosphere spectral fingerprint SPQ12A89BC0 ("ancient Roman planet")
284  BOTEJN (‡•ü‡§ñ Arietis) Notorious stellar entrep‡§•‡§ñt. Many's the idle hour whiled away by spacers over hot rum beneath its bloated limb.
284  BRACHIUM (‡§∞É Librae) Abandoned red giant, remembered only in a song fragment: "O supple airs of [lost|affordable] Brachium."
284  BUNDA (‡•ü‡§† Aquarii) Dry white star with an elegant spectroscopic bouquet hinting at the presence of an unseen binary companion.
285  CALVERA (1RXS J141256.0+792204) X-ray source, visible portion of a manifold parasite embedded in the galactic animal.
285  CANOPUS (‡•ü‡§î Carinae) Famous as the Second Star To The Right, travellers should memorise its spectrum as a navigational aid. See also: DENEB.
285  CAPELLA (‡•ü‡§î Aurigae) By an inevitable coincidence, the hircine inhabitants of this quadruple system refer to SOL as the "Star of Apes".
285  CAPH (‡•ü‡§ë Cassiopeiae) Pulsating giant star,  anchored to the sky by a Skein remnant.
286  CASTOR (‡•ü‡§î Geminorum) System of two A-giants and four M-dwarfs assembled by a demiurge who was basically showing off.
286  CASTRA (‡•ü‡§ó Capricorni) Triple-star system constructed from military salvage following the Reionisation War.
286  CASTULA (‡•ü‡§ü Cephei) Grand giant in a Gothic revival style, featuring immense solar buttresses supporting a filigree iron core.
286  CAYREL'S STAR (BPS CS31082-0001) Ancient Population II star, set aside as a breeding reserve for angels, an endangered species.
287  CELAENO (16 Tauri) Capital of the Pleiades, a beautifully planned system with some of the highest tides in the Galaxy.
287  CELBALRAI (‡•ü‡§ë Ophiuchi) K-type orange giant orbited by a stunningly beautiful ocean planet. Ah, the polychrome sunsets of Celbalrai Prime!
287  CHARA (‡•ü‡§ë Canum Venaticorum) Perky G-dwarf with doubled emission lines in the delight-alpha spectrum, indicating high self-esteem.
287  CHOO (‡•ü‡§î Arae) Rapidly spinning stellar Catherine wheel with polar outflows, one of the few stars whose name is onomatopoeic.
288  CHORT (‡•ü‡§ö Leonis) A-type main sequence star with companion bearing biosphere spectra fingerprint YOL023AA459 ("bro planet").
288  CHOW (‡•ü‡§ë Serpentis) A-dwarf, home system of the Tentacle, a tree which evolved into an orbital elevator.
288  COR CAROLI (‡•ü‡§î Canum Venaticorum) Widely-separated binary whose members are staying together for the sake of the planets.
288  CURSA (‡•ü‡§ë Eridani) Variable rectangular green or amber star, used as a Galactic placeholder.
289  DABIH MAJOR (‡•ü‡§ë‡§§‡§õ Capricorni) Has a complicated spectrum showing features typical of K-giants, B-dwarfs and halogen downlighting.
289  DABIH MINOR (‡•ü‡§ë‡§§‡§ë Capricorni) Bright A-type giant with elevated levels of zinc and manganese, indicating a healthy immune system.
289  DALIM (‡•ü‡§î Fornacis) Dwarf star, home to a race of energy beings who are unique in their refusal to meddle with protagonists.
289  DELTA (‡•ü‡§ñ Andromedae) K-giant held in a vast conical fold in space-time known as The Sconce. Prone to spluttering.
290  DELTOTUM (‡•ü‡§ë Trianguli) Home to a species so hostile that nothing is known of them but their name, or possibly its first three syllables.
290  DENEB (‡•ü‡§î Cygni) Landmark, not to be confused with DENEB AL OKAB, DENEB ALGEDI, DENEB KAITOS, DENEB KAITOS SHEMALI, DENEBAKRAB or DENEBOLA.
290  DENEB AL OKAB (‡•ü‡§ò Aquilae) Double star with a circumstellar disk of dust, gas, ash, perfume, broken heels and theatre tickets.
290  DENEB ALGEDI (‡•ü‡§ñ Capricorni) Eclipsing binary consisting of a G-dwarf which periodically sits on top of an A-giant, winding it.
310  DENEB KAITOS (‡•ü‡§ë Ceti) Superb orange giant. The ice moons of its outer planets are undergoing Thaw-Renaissance as it expands.
310  DENEB KAITOS SHEMALI (‡•ü‡§õ Ceti) K-dwarf settled by migrants from DENEB KAITOS who believed that the latter was about to become a supernova.
311  DENEBAKRAB (‡•ü‡§û‡§§‡§õ Scorpii) Close binary system where one star's mass is spilling onto the other, a famed location for extreme sports.
311  DENEBOLA (‡•ü‡§ë Leonis) Hazardous system constructed as an early Skein experiment, bound with topological defect cables rather than gravity.
312  DIADEM (‡•ü‡§î Comae Berenices) Ornate white binary in a brilliant setting of carbon planets and ice giants.
312  DIPTERA (‡•ü‡§ë Muscae) Compound star, a relentlessly swarming mass of blue-black starlets.
313  THE DOUBLE DOUBLE (‡•ü‡§ó Lyrae) Thought at first to be quadruple, this system is now known to be recursive and indefinitely large.
313  DSCHUBBA (‡•ü‡§ñ Scorpii) Prophesied to one day unite the BATENTABANS, PHACD, SCHEAT and USHAKARON in a mighty empire known as the Epic Solo.
313  DUBHE (‡•ü‡§î Ursae Majoris) Quadruple system, home of the Grey Giants, living planets which purr unceasingly along their orbits.
314  DZIBAIN (‡§∞à‡§§‡§õ Draconis) Binary star orbited by a beige dwarf just massive enough to sustain classical fusion.
314  EKKHYSIS (‡•ü‡§ù Aquarii) Red giant, ever expanding and contracting its formless, evanescent and delicate outer layers.
314  EL NATH (‡•ü‡§ë Tauri) Unlike most meteor showers, which only appear to come from their radiant, the Beta Taurids actually come from EL NATH.
315  EL REHLA (‡§∞Ñ Puppis) Solipsistic object with the power to convince others that it is the only star in the cosmos. Not to be approached.
315  ELECTRA (17 Tauri) Blue giant star which is fusing hybris in its core, giving rise to strong nemesis and vengeance emission lines.
315  ELTANIN (‡•ü‡§ï Draconis) Red giant whose primary is home to a race of flightless interstellar dragons who have adapted to life planetside.
315  ELVASHAK (‡•ü‡§î Lyncis) Plaid orange giant with the best hot wings in the Orion Arm.
316  ENIF (‡•ü‡§ó Pegasi) Monstrous red giant of evil reputation, the Bloated One, the Maw, the Devourer, the Stain.
316  ERRAI (‡•ü‡§ï Cephei) Orange subgiant with red dwarf companion. The polychrome sundials of its planet are famed for their exquisite beauty.
316  FIEHT (‡•ü‡§ò Ophiuchi) Young blue giant moving at high speed through the interstellar medium, its bow shock a rich feeding ground for dragons.
316  FOMALHAUT (‡•ü‡§î Piscis Austrini) Fabled as the site of an ingestive organ of the galactic animal, a magnet for explorers and thaumaturges.
317  FOO PIH (‡•ü‡§ï Hydri) Red giant with companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint AAA10011011 ("robot planet").
317  FORAMEN (‡•ü‡§ô Carinae) Mighty beacon, soon to be used as an extragalactic signal by demiurges. Projected message content: "NOT YET."
317  FUM AL FARAS (‡•ü‡§ü Pegasi) K-giant, home to the Clockworld, a sublight event clearing house established by the Fourth Empire, now derelict.
317  FUM AL SAMAKAH (‡•ü‡§ë Piscium) Flattened, fast-rotating B-giant, a tracery of tormented gas fretted by blue lightning.
318  FURUD (‡•ü‡§ò Canis Majoris) Example of a breathing star whose mild variations accelerate when it is observed.
318  GACRUX (‡•ü‡§ï Crucis) Sacred to raptors on many worlds, the closest red giant star to SOL.
318  GATRIA (‡•ü‡§ï Trianguli Australis) A-subgiant, a vast white tetrahedron held in shape by powerful magnetic fields.
318  GEMINGA (PSR B0633+17) Pulsar, wanders the skies making friends and distorting space-time. Maybe tomorrow, it will want to settle down.
319  GIAUSAR (‡•ü‡§ù Draconis) Believed to be the dragons' home system, a red giant orbited by the embers of ancient carbon planets.
319  GIENAH (‡•ü‡§ó Cygni) K-giant fitted with solar wind baffles by which its inhabitants are very gradually altering its trajectory.
319  GIENAH GURAB (‡•ü‡§ï Corvi) B-giant, home of the fabled Dream Planet, a world free from causalty. Visitors are usually punished by trite curses.
319  GIRTAB (‡•ü‡§ú Scorpii) Binary star. All the rocky bodies in its system have been carved into the same form, which may represent a face.
320  GOMEISA (‡•ü‡§ë Canis Minoris) Blue star with restorative properties, whose local name is Peace [Dampness] After Weeping.
320  GORGONEA QUARTA (‡§∞â Persei) K-dwarf, evil subsidiary of ALGOL, acts as a galactic sump. Every direction in its system is down.
320  GORGONEA SECUNDA (‡§∞Ä Persei) A-giant, evil subsidiary of ALGOL. The rise and fall of empires are foretold by its shifting blemishes.
320  GORGONEA TERTIA (‡§∞Å Persei) Large red giant, evil subsidiary of ALGOL. All of the constellations visible from this system are obscene.
321  GRAFFIAS (‡•ü‡§ë Scorpii) Sextuple system where space flight was invented in the steam age, its history inspired the first space operas.
321  GRUID (‡•ü‡§ë Gruis) Pre-Copernican system established as a supernature preserve. Access within its celestial sphere is strictly controlled.
321  GRUMIUM (‡•ü‡§† Draconis) Orange, metal-rich star populated by demons who have fitted it with active volcanoes. No-one is quite sure how.
321  HADAR (‡•ü‡§ë Centauri) Blue giant star which has evolved away from the Main Sequence in search of something it refers to as "the new sound".
322  HAMAL (‡•ü‡§î Arietis) Its inhabitants invented interstellar flight before science fiction. Lacking preconceptions, they conquered the Galaxy.
322  HATSYA (‡•ü‡§õ Orionis) Close binary pair with a wide age difference, resulting in high X-ray emissions and the disapproval of neighbours.
340  HEAD OF HYDRUS (‡•ü‡§î Hydri) Sensory organ of the galactic animal, manifests as an ever-changing succession of glowing, biomorphic forms.
340  HECATEBOLUS (‡§∞Ñ Sagittarii) K-subgiant, home to a species whose habit of transmitting powerful, enigmatic signals has wrecked their economy.
341  HERSCHEL'S GARNET STAR (‡•ü‡§û Cephei) M-supergiant, an immense red fog, its outer reefs trapping dragons, unwary vessels and the odd planet.
341  @matchtrick Thank you.
341  HEZE (‡•ü‡§ò Virginis) Apparently ordinary A-dwarf which emits entangled photons, hinting that it is an experimental construct.
342  HIND'S CRIMSON STAR (R Leporis) Deep red giant in the throes of stellar alchemy, a beating heart emitting clouds of nutritious carbon.
342  HOEDUS I (‡•ü‡§ò Aurigae) Orange giant orbiting a hot blue subgiant, its eclipses were described by Sagan as "like drinking a rainbow".
342  HOEDUS II (‡•ü‡§ô Aurigae) Blue dwarf, origin of Clear Spot, one of the more successful galactic religious franchises.
342  HOMAM (‡•ü‡§ò Pegasi) Fabled system, merely to say its name is to be transported there. Species without FTL are advised not to say its name.
342  HYDROBIUS (‡•ü‡§ò Hydrae) G-type giant trundled across the heavens by a large beetle. Sacred in the skies of all insect worlds.
343  INNES' STAR (LHS 40) Small, perfectly-formed M-class star, inhabited by a debonair race of urban spacemen.
343  JABBAH (‡•ü‡§ü Scorpii) Septuple system of blue dwarfs in a blue nebula, the day and night skies of its worlds are a shimmering uniform haze.
343  JABHAT AL AKRAB (‡§∞â Scorpii) Capital star of the Scorpio association, a group of local up-and-coming supernova candidates.
343  JIH (‡•ü‡§ú Pegasi) Home of the Yassa, a minor stellar empire founded by nomadic horselords whose spacefleets consisted largely of fodder scows.
344  JUXTA CRUCEM (‡•ü‡§ó Crucis) Orange giant, held in many religions to be the site of an ancient sacrifice. Mysteriously, it has no planets.
344  KABDHILINAN (‡•ü‡§õ Aurigae) Grand K-giant supporting a prosperous system of brown, charcoal and off-white dwarfs.
344  KAFFALJIDHMA (‡•ü‡§ï Ceti) Triple star described by Struve as "an extraordinary  nontuple system" before he cut down to three cups a day.
344  KAJAM (‡§∞â Herculis) Not a star but the still-burning remains of an asteroid struck by a gluon-plasma superweapon known as the Big Stick.
345  KAPTEYN'S STAR (VZ Pictoris) M-dwarf which fell into our Galaxy from the Omega Centauri globular cluster and will not shut up about it.
345  KAUS AUSTRALIS (‡•ü‡§ó Sagittarii) Blue subgiant, terminal point of a weaponised Skein remnant, surrounded by dangerous void currents.
345  KAUS BOREALIS (‡•ü‡§ù Sagittarii) Attached to KAUS AUSTRALIS by a Skein remnant, tension is stretching the manifold here to near breaking point.
345  KAUS MEDIA (‡•ü‡§ñ Sagittarii) K-type giant which will be projected at 0.5 c by a stressed Skein remnant when its void hawsers are severed.
346  KEID (‡•ü‡§°‡§§‡§ë Eridani) Triple system, known locally as the Broken Husk, the relic of a forgotten event of cosmic rebirth.
346  KEPLER'S STAR (SN 1604) Local demiurgic signal beacon. Projected message: "WACHET AUF".
346  KHAMBALIA (‡•ü‡§ù Virginis) Home to the Spice Planets, famed for their schools of xenogastrosophy: "Everything's delicious to somebody."
346  KISS‡§¶‡§ãN (21 Comae Berenices) Tremulous white variable, its system overrun by vegetative replicators, it peeps shyly from delicate tangles.
347  KITALPHA (‡•ü‡§î Equulei) A-dwarf orbiting a G-giant, a close and somewhat codependent binary pair.
347  KLEEIA (‡•ü‡§ñ‡§§‡§ï Tauri) Modernist triple system, three circular outlines with primitive rays in a bold, assured and vigorous style.
347  KOCHAB (‡•ü‡§ë Ursae Minoris) Retired Pole Star of Earth, delegate to the Lodestar Club and composer of that body's anthem, the Precessional.
347  KORNEPHOROS (‡•ü‡§ë Herculis) Yellow giant with companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint VOV01CEA998 ("dessert planet")
348  KRAZ (‡•ü‡§ë Corvi) G-giant, setting of the famous series of eponymous genitive epics, now in its 611th instalment ("Prince-Bishops of Kraz").
348  KRZEMI‡§ßÉSKI'S STAR (V779 Centauri) Blue giant distorted by its X-ray pulsar companion, believed to be an art project which got out of hand.
348  KULLAT NUNU (‡•ü‡§ô Piscium) Bright giant, home to an aquatic species whose custom of luring terrestrial creatures ("beasting") is controversial.
348  KUMA (‡•ü‡§ü Draconis) Yll's field work here led to her theory that dragons are the result of convergent bioengineering by many species.
349  LA SUPERBA (Y Canum Venaticorum) Beautiful ruby star, thought to be past its prime by some observers but still adored by devotees.
349  LESATH (‡§∞Ö Scorpii) Louche blue star whose crumbling worlds slouch in stops and starts on their slipping orbits.
349  LUCIDA ANSERIS (‡•ü‡§î Vulpeculae) Home to two species who have overcome their predator-prey relationship to establish a peaceful civilisation.
349  LUCIDA OPPIDI (‡§∞Ä Sagittarii) Triple system whose primary planet is covered by a world-city and orbited by asteroid-suburbs.
350  LUCY (V886 Centauri) Diamond star inhabited by ultradense nuclear-spin beings who refer to the rest of the Galaxy as "the fluffiverse".
350  LUYTEN'S STAR (GJ 273) Elegant M-dwarf whose piquant spectrum shows strong irony-III emission lines and some self-absorption.
350  MAASYM (‡•ü‡§ù Herculis) The migratory habits of stars are not well understood. This K-giant is believed to mark SOL'S ancestral breeding ground.
350  THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN (RX J1856.5-3754 et. al.) Posse of maverick neutron stars in an uneasy alliance against a common foe.
350  MAIA (20 Tauri) Blue giant, resort system of the Pleiades cluster. Massive ocean worlds bask in surrender beneath its violet rays.
370  MARFAK (‡•ü‡§ú Herculis) G-giant, home to a hominid species whose philosophy is based solely on reason. At war with MARFARK and MARFIK.
371  MARFARK (‡•ü‡§ö Cassiopeiae) A-dwarf, home to a bureaubot species whose philosophy is based solely on rezoning. At war with MARFAK and MARFIK.
371  MARFIK (‡•ü‡§ù Ophiuchi) Binary star, home to a vegetable species whose philosophy is based solely on rhizomes. At war with MARFAK and MARFARK.
371  MARKAB (k‡§õ Puppis) Blue giant, third of the second set of line-of-sight cognates identified by Yule (see also ACAMAR, ACHERNAR).
372  MARKAB (k‡§ë Puppis) Blue giant, it and k‡§õ Puppis comprise the only Yulean cognate pair to have ever been collinear with SOL.
372  MARKAB (‡•ü‡§î Pegasi) B-giant. A concerted attempt by Yule's colleagues to "correct" its name to "MARKCD" provoked a diplomatic incident.
372  MARKAB (‡•ü‡§ú Velorum) Yule's attempts to explain the fourth MARKAB destroyed his reputation; he died before the discovery of Old Earth.
372  MATAR (‡•ü‡§ô Pegasi) Duress binary pair consisting of a bright giant which has captured an F-dwarf against the latter star's will.
373  MEBSUTA (‡•ü‡§ó Geminorum) G-giant in an advanced and startling phase of stellar evolution which appears to be growing limbs.
373  MEGREZ (‡•ü‡§ñ Ursae Majoris) Evil star on which a race of rats live, in defiance of an ancient proverb.
373  MEISSA (‡•ü‡§ù Orionis) Fine star with a hard ceramic interior, delicate blue underglaze and extensive craquelure.
373  MEKBUDA (‡•ü‡§ò Geminorum) Egotistical Cepheid variable, its spectrum a single voiceless word, at all wavelengths, in all languages: "MEKBUDA!"
374  MENKALINAN (‡•ü‡§ë Aurigae) Close pair of white giants orbited by a red dwarf whose inhabitants gaze on the mighty pair with joy and terror.
374  MENKAR (‡•ü‡§î Ceti) Red giant with companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint JTJ673AA560 ("utopia planet, feminist separatist")
374  MENKENT (‡•ü‡§ö Centauri) Planetless K-giant embedded in a structural element of the galactic animal, perhaps as an ancient safety marker.
374  MENKIB (‡•ü‡§† Persei) Blue giant, one of the hottest nearby stars, a popular location for spacefaring civilizations to see and be seen.
375  MERAK (‡•ü‡§ë Ursae Majoris) A-type star whose circumstellar disk supports a rich ecosystem of plasms and drifters.
375  MERGA (38 Bo‡•´tis) F-giant, one of the Filter Stars, surrounded by tempting artefacts and puzzles which lead explorers to a special prize.
375  MEROPE (23 Tauri) Blue giant surrounded by a hazy nebula through which its circling planets trace expanding copper-pink spirals.
375  MESARTHIM (‡•ü‡§ï Arietis) Binary sustained by the prayers of its inhabitants. It slid 3ly galactic south when they were interrupted by meteors.
375  MIAPLACIDUS (‡•ü‡§ë Carinae) Serene water star, a cloud of white vapour surrounding a core of ultradense ice.
376  MIMOSA (‡•ü‡§ë Crucis) Intricate blue dwarf, home to the Machine Elves, a race of minor demiurges. Only to be approached by astral travel.
376  MINARUJA (‡§∞É Hydrae) K-type star, last outpost before the Uninhabited Spot, a bustling mercantile zone and tax haven.
376  MINKAR (‡•ü‡§ó Corvi) K-giant, home to an avian race who aspire to flightlessness and who proudly style themselves "they who creep".
376  MINTAKA (‡•ü‡§ñ Orionis) Hot O and B giants in a tight orbit, a celestial amour fou which must end with one or both partners going supernova.
377  MIRA (‡•ü‡§° Ceti) Magnificent system, a white dwarf linked to a pulsing red giant by a vast stream of glowing gas teeming with new life.
377  MIRACH (‡•ü‡§ë Andromedae) Illusory red giant, believed to have been constructed as a decoy by a local trickster deity.
377  MIRAM (‡•ü‡§ô Persei) Folksy K-type star which prides itself on being "the biggest little subgiant in the Orion Arm".
377  MIRFAK (‡•ü‡§î Persei) Brilliant white giant, capital star of the Alpha Persei Cluster. Not to be confused with MARFAK, MARFARK or MARFIK.
378  MIZAR (‡•ü‡§ò Ursae Majoris) Quadruple system with a peaceful polity based entirely on eclipse cycles and psychedelic spore consumption.
378  MOTHALLAH (‡•ü‡§î Trianguli) F-type instar, a rapidly rotating chrysalis, faintly visible forms within hint at the next stage of its life-cycle.
378  MUHLIFAIN (‡•ü‡§ï Centauri) The Two Things, binary system home to a saurian race whose language lacks precise nouns. See also: MULIPHEIN
378  MULIPHEIN (‡•ü‡§ï Canis Majoris) Uninhabited A-giant named the Two Things, That One, Hare, the Lexicographer's Oath. See also: MUHLIFAIN
379  MUPHRID (‡•ü‡§ô Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Mature vaudeville star, source of low comedy and high jinks. The "sad trombone" sound was invented on its fourth planet.
379  MURZIM (‡•ü‡§ë Canis Majoris) B-giant with planetary companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint LID106AD569 ("hat planet")
379  MUSCIDA (‡•ü‡§° Ursae Majoris) Parallel version of MUSCIDA and MUSCIDA (qq.v.) Here, the third mandibular consonant has no voiced form.
379  MUSCIDA (‡§∞Ä‡§§‡§õ Ursae Majoris) Parallel version of MUSCIDA and MUSCIDA (qq.v.) Here, the Ovipositor Coup was crushed; males are still chattels.
380  MUSCIDA (‡§∞Ä‡§§‡§ë Ursae Majoris) Parallel version of MUSCIDA and MUSCIDA (qq.v.) Here, a time-traveller to the Mammal Age prevented civilisation.
380  MYIA (‡•ü‡§î Muscae) Oasis system whose multiple worlds have biomes to suite any traveller. Beware of nearby mirages.
380  NAOS (‡•ü‡§ò Puppis) O-type giant on the run from its home cluster, an extremely ultraviolet star bound to end as a black hole or worse.
380  NASHIRA (‡•ü‡§ï Capricorni) Famed as the "Lucky Star", its planet has survived gas clouds, dragons, strangelets, invasions and terraforming.
403  NAVI (‡•ü‡§ï Cassiopeiae) Fine example of a shell star, this B-subgiant has made its home in an older star's discarded integument.
404  NEKKAR (‡•ü‡§ë Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Metal-rich star with blistering fretwork and a tendency to exhibit enormous flares.
404  NEMBUS (51 Andromedae) Respectable K-giant, formerly ‡§∞Ö Persei, it was rezoned to avoid the stigma of ALGOL and its subsidiaries.
405  NIHAL (‡•ü‡§ë Leporis) G-type giant, home to a race of inverse solipsist AIs who believe that everything but their own consciousnesses exists.
406  NUNKI (‡§∞É Sagittarii) Adorable blue star, all of its rocky worlds were planed down into cubes by a forgotten and fussy civilisation.
406  @peterjcaseytwit Thank you.
407  NUSAKAN (‡•ü‡§ë Coronae Borealis) Once a fabled treasure planet, its third world's service industries now employ many time-dilated adventurers.
407  OKUL (‡§∞Ä Capricorni) Binary system whose primary is the eye ‡•àÄî now eternally watchful and unblinking ‡•àÄî of a disgraced guardian demiurge.
408  PAE CHAOU (‡•ü‡§ó Delphini) Giant star in an advanced state of maturation, with a bruised chromosphere and somewhat overripe spectrum.
408  PEACOCK (‡•ü‡§î Pavonis) Binary orbited by a desolate world on which explorers found the fossilised remains of a NAAFI. See also: AVIOR.
409  PENNAE CAUDALIS (‡§∞Ä‡§§‡§ë Cygni) Elegant, pied star with beautiful plumage, home to a race of empiricists who are surprised each time it rises.
409  PEREGRINI (‡•ü‡§û Velorum) Near the intersection of seven major pilgrimage routes, this system is famed for its temples and fortifications.
409  THE PERSIAN (‡•ü‡§î Indi) K-giant cloaked in a dark nebula and what is held by many to be a somewhat too ostentatious air of mystery.
409  PHACT (‡•ü‡§î Columbae) A-subgiant, home of Mens, a planet-sized computer from the second empire. It has been defragmenting for two cosmic years.
410  PHAD (‡•ü‡§ï Ursae Majoris) Home system of the Patterners, an order of demiurges responsible for attitudes, dispositions and trends.
410  PHERKAD MAJOR (‡•ü‡§ï Ursae Minoris) Capital star of the least efficient stellar empire in history, whence the phrase "completely Pherkad".
410  PHERKAD MINOR (11 Ursae Minoris) K-giant, established as backup capital and audit mirror of the empire of PHERKAD MAJOR (q.v.).
410  PHORBACEUS (72 Ophiuchi) Scene of an ancient atrocity, constellations in which it appears were expunged from the zodiacs of many worlds.
411  PIAZZI'S FLYING STAR (61 Cygni) A pair of K-dwarfs tumbling through space at death-defying speeds (orbital period 670‡§î30 Earth years).
411  PLASKETT'S STAR (HR 2422) Alarming close pair of O-supergiants, the inhabitants of its solitary planet declare it to be "God's own system".
411  PLEIONE (28 Tauri) Blue giant whose variability is due to a circumstellar gas disk, polar winds, a mild inferiority complex and tidal mumps.
411  POLARIS (‡•ü‡§î Ursae Minoris) Current lodestar of Earth, a grand star system whose many species are yet haunted by dreams of navigating apes.
411  POLARIS AUSTRALIS (‡§∞É Octantis) Earth's southern Pole Star, its insufficient wattage was condemned in the proceedings of the Lodestar Club.
412  @TehMuck Both, I believe.
412  POLIS (‡•ü‡§û Sagittarii) Quadruple system networked by the Skein and bustling with traffic, its inhabitants think orbits are for "rubes".
412  POLLUX (‡•ü‡§ë Geminorum) K-giant whose one planet has one moon with one mountain with one cave in which lives one creature, named Pollux.
412  PORRIMA (‡•ü‡§ï Virginis) Home to the Time Ladies, demiurges charged with averting, or rendering instructive or amusing, causality paradoxes.
413  PRAECIPUA (46 Leonis Minoris) K-subgiant at the fixed point of our Galaxy; a foldspace drive activated here will take you exactly nowhere.
413  PRAJ‡§¶ÄPATI (‡•ü‡§ñ Aurigae) Golden orb by which light's realm and sky-vault are sustained. What demiurge shall we adore with our offering?
413  PRIMA STRUTHIONUM (‡•ü‡§ô Ceti) Robust, peppery red giant with subtle tobacco and chocolate notes, an excellent complement to rare earths.
431  PRIMUS HYADUM (‡•ü‡§ï Taurii) K-giant, home to the oldest civilisation in the Hyades, an echinoderm race famed for poetry and lava-sculpting.
432  PRINCEPS (‡•ü‡§ñ Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Rare example of a purple dwarf, a volatile star with high-energy emissions over a wide range of musical genres.
432  PROCYON (‡•ü‡§î Canis Minoris) F-subgiant, its white dwarf companion is host to a dragon colony that migrated from SOL in the distant past.
432  PRZYBYLSKI'S STAR (HD 101065) Blue dwarf with a peculiar spectrum showing an almost complete absence of vowels.
433  PULCHERRIMA (‡•ü‡§ó Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Beautiful if narcissistic binary pair, a white sphere and an orange, tidally locked in mutual adoration.
433  QUARTA STRUTHIONUM (‡•ü‡§ò Ceti) K-giant whose desert planet was colonised by a hominid species expert at believing their own legal fictions.
434  QUINTA STRUTHIONUM (‡§∞Ö Ceti) Red giant orbited by a strange megastructure thought by scholars to be a prison, hospital, ship or resort.
435  RANA (‡•ü‡§ñ Eridani) K-subgiant with planetary companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint BRKE7E7E7E7 ("swamp planet")
435  RAS ALGETHI (‡•ü‡§î Herculis) Home to a planet-wide sentient ocean whose enigmatic signals are now thought to mean: "HELP, I CAN'T GET UP".
436  RAS ALHAGUE (‡•ü‡§î Ophiuchi) White star, site of the Court of Relativity, with jurisdiction over spacelike precedence and looped successions.
436  RAS ELASED AUSTRALIS (‡•ü‡§ó Leonis) Prosperous system which punishes any migrants whose desperation reminds the inhabitants how lucky they are.
437  RAS ELASED BOREALIS (‡•ü‡§û Leonis) Whiter-than-white star, a projection of the dreams of the ruling caste of RAS ELASED AUSTRALIS (q.v.)
437  RASTABAN (‡•ü‡§ë Draconis) Location of Yll's homeworld, devasted by dragons in her youth, an event which triggered her scientific career.
438  REGOR (‡•ü‡§ï Velorum) Vast Wolf-Rayet star orbiting a hot O-dwarf, emitting gas clouds said to haunted by the ghosts of ancient astronauts.
438  REGULUS (‡•ü‡§î Leonis) Lost quadruple system, its final message: "OH SUITCASES FULL OF BLUE PUPPETS, SAVE US FROM THE PLIGHT OF LITTLE KING!"
439  REVENANTE OF THE SWAN (P Cygni) Distant, undead star, a haggard giant, brightening in visible frequencies as it dims in the ultraviolet.
439  RIGEL (‡•ü‡§ë Orionis) Blue supergiant, gateway to Orion. Famous as the home system of a band of legendary AI warriors, the Rigel Ro-Friends.
440  RIGIL KENTAURUS (‡•ü‡§î Centauri) Triple system inhabited by centaurs, the coincidence of names being a race-memory of their brief visit to SOL.
441  RIJL AL AWWA (‡•ü‡§û Virginis) F-dwarf, its second planet home to an urbane species of pack predator who melodiously call to multiple moons.
441  ROTANEV (‡•ü‡§ë Delphini) F-binary pair, astronomer Niccol‡§•‡§ë Cacciatore gave it the reversed Latin form of his own surname. See also: SUALOCIN.
441  RUCHBA (‡§∞â‡§§‡§õ Cygni) B-giant. A probe launched from this system into a nearby flexure point of the galactic animal caused the Great Voidquake.
442  RUCHBAH (‡•ü‡§ñ Cassiopeiae) Bright young giant star which has exhausted both its supplies of hydrogen and its parent cluster's patience.
442  RUKBALGETHI GENUBI (‡•ü‡§ö Herculis) The "Southern Knee", at war with RUKBALGETHI SHEMALI (q.v.) following a disputed refereeing decision.
442  RUKBALGETHI SHEMALI (‡§∞Ñ Herculis) The "Northern Knee", at war with RUKBALGETHI GENUBI (q.v.) Sadly, the recent truce may only be halftime.
442  RUKBAT (‡•ü‡§î Sagittarii) B-dwarf, home to the Thieves' Planet, a place of sound ethical values ever since they stole another species' mores.
443  RUKH (‡•ü‡§ñ Cygni) The Parliament of Rukh is one of the Galaxy's oldest anarchies. Its chief exports are political theorists and assassins.
443  THE RUNAWAY STAR (Groombridge 1830) F-dwarf with apparently high proper motion, caught on a void snag while the Galaxy streams around it.
443  RUTICULUS (‡•ü‡§ò Herculis) Binary system, home to a transcended race who tired of aloof godhood and went "from the sublime to the Ruticulus".
443  SABIK (‡•ü‡§ô Ophiuchi) White binary pair in a highly eccentric orbit which gives both members a little space every now and then.
444  SADACHBIA (‡•ü‡§ï Aquarii) A-dwarf, current resting place of the Tabernacle, a demountable shrine the size of a small planet.
444  SADALBARI (‡•ü‡§ù and ‡•ü‡§û Pegasi) Appearing as twin stars 200 ly apart, this yellow giant was being translocated through a wormhole and got stuck.
444  SADALMELIK (‡•ü‡§î Aquarii) Vast golden supergiant, the inhabitants of its five worlds find the light of other suns to be sickly by comparison.
445  SADALPHERETZ (‡•ü‡§ù Pegasi) Yellow giant which was displaced from its station by SADALBARI and then sold its naming rights to a local wizard.
445  SADALSUUD (‡•ü‡§ë Aquarii) Not just a lucky star, but the luckiest, this G-type giant has a wide Goldilocks zone and a winning personality.
445  SADIRA (‡•ü‡§ó Eridani) Small, K-class star, a near neighbour of SOL, surrounded by belts of asteroids that never quite got it together.
445  SADR (‡•ü‡§ï Cygni) Syrupy, aromatic yellow supergiant with mucilaginous flesh and a chewy nougat core.
446  SAIPH (‡•ü‡§ú Orionis) B-giant in the Orion supernova factory, site of an environmental dispute between demiurges and preservationists.
446  SALM (‡§∞Ñ Pegasi) Bland white star whose spectrum will put most biological sophonts into a light coma. AI pilots are essential.
446  SARGAS (‡•ü‡§ö Scorpii) Evolved yellow giant at a still point in the Galaxy, surrounded by a cloud of odd socks, pens and minor pop deities.
446  SARIN (‡•ü‡§ñ Herculis) An A-giant and F-dwarf in a tight orbit, in turn orbited by a yellow dwarf that feels like a bit of a third wheel.
467  SARIR (‡•ü‡§ö Ursae Majoris) F-subgiant, its fourth planet is a rare example of a glass giant, a great orb refracting the constellations.
468  SASIN (‡•ü‡§ó Leporis) Young, jumped-up K-giant, with a feisty emission spectrum and a rotational speed well above its station.
468  SCEPTRUM (53 Eridani) K-class dwarf of the House of Hohernzollen, sometime capital of the Holy Roman Stellar Empire.
469  SCHEAT (‡•ü‡§ë Pegasi) Festive red giant with a cheerful atmosphere compared to most stars of that class, garlanded with ribbons of ejected gas.
469  SCHEDAR (‡•ü‡§î Cassiopeiae) Mature yellow giant with a waxy orange chromosphere and pungent spectrum, a line-of-sight cognate with SADR.
470  SEAT (‡§∞Ä Aquarii) When you wish upon a star, it is routed to the demiurges of this binary, currently running a three-cosmic-year backlog.
470  SECUNDA STRUTHIONUM (‡•ü‡§ö Ceti) K-giant, the inhabitants of its one planet have no culture apart from a single sport, which they are bad at.
471  SECUNDUS HYADUM (‡•ü‡§ñ‡§§‡§õ Tauri) Binary star, female in myth but male in grammar. The real genders of stars are noncommutative vector operators.
471  SEGIN (‡•ü‡§ó Cassiopeiae) Blue-white cosmic pearl secreted by the galactic animal around an ancient generation ship, lost in a nacreous tomb.
472  SEGINUS (‡•ü‡§ï Bo‡§•‡§òtis) Classical white star which is currently in a smooth transition from a hydrogen-fusing dwarf to a bright giant.
472  SEPHDAR (‡•ü‡§ô Sagittarii) Neurotic red giant with strong emission lines at 4860 ‡§•‡§Üngstr‡§•‡§òms, indicating a buildup of resentment.
472  SHAM (‡•ü‡§î Sagittae) More than 70% of this yellow giant's mass has been converted to broth and encouraging pamphlets by a replicator outbreak.
472  SHAULA (‡•ü‡§ù Scorpii) Quintuple system whose worlds were reprocessed into a superweapon, the Sting, now used as a Memorial to Forgotten Wars.
473  SHE (‡•ü‡§û Columbae) Hot O-class dwarf which was ejected from the Orion supernova factory after a disagreement with local demiurges.
473  SHELIAK (‡•ü‡§ë Lyrae) Semi-detached binary, Roche lobes kissing in a fever of x-rays and plasma, attracting complaints from the neighbours.
473  SHERATAN (‡•ü‡§ë Arietis) Comfortable white star with a spotless spectrum and an exceptionally high thread count.
473  SIMIRAM (‡§∞â Carinae) Blue giant, rare example of a system where organic life forms invented machine intelligence.
474  SINISTRA (‡•ü‡§ü Ophiuchi) K-giant with an peaceful culture belying its name, with the exception of its inner brown dwarf, which is a real dump.
474  Are we alone? Conference presentation on Big History, galactic energy and more from @JosephVoros: http://t.co/nu0vMqt0
474  SIRIUS (‡•ü‡§î Canis Majoris) Blue-white star, its red colour several thousand years ago was due to an outbreak of dragons on its white dwarf.
474  SIRRAH (‡•ü‡§î Andromedae) A-binary whose planets lie under a curse of perpetual renaissance, excelling in ostentation, virt‡§•‡§õ, poetry and war.
475  SITULA (‡•ü‡§ú Aquarii) Orange giant, all of its planets are waterworlds, studded with buoyant pumice islands, webbed with hundred-mile kelp.
475  SKAT (‡•ü‡§ñ Aquarii) Remote star used by demiurges as a prison for a powerful cacod‡§•‡§ámon, an A-class dwarf with an unspeakable spectrum.
475  SOL G-dwarf with planetary companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint MNKE187CA44 ("ape planet").
475  SPEEDY MIC (BO Microscopii) Young K-dwarf, spinning wildly and breaking out in a mass of sunspots and absurdly styled prominences.
475  SPICA (‡•ü‡§î Virginis) Binary system of time-reversed blue dwarfs, its inhabitants cherish the memory of their creation in a great supernova.
476  STEROPE I (21 Tauri) Blue dwarf in the Pleiades, with STEROPE II (q.v.) formed part of an ancient experiment in 3D broadcasting.
476  STEROPE II (22 Tauri) Legend says that if the galactic animal should close one of its eyes, this star (or STEROPE I) would go out.
476  SUALOCIN (‡•ü‡§î Delphini) B-dwarf, second of the stars which Niccol‡§•‡§ë Cacciatore named after himself as a practical joke. See also: ROTANEV.
493  SUBRA (‡•ü‡§° Leonis) Binary system, its sole planet home to a breed of powerful humanoids who sustain a thriving superhero export industry.
493  SULAFAT (‡•ü‡§ï Lyrae) Blue giant, the Skein fragment attached to its South Pole oscillates in resonance with the Song of Sulafat.
494  SYRMA (‡•ü‡§õ Virginis) Mischievous F-class dwarf with a coquettish emission spectrum and slight unpredictable variability.
494  TABIT (‡§∞Ä‡§§‡§ï Orionis) Tiny, virtual star, created when an astronomer looked at the massive ‡§∞Ä‡•àÅ‡§ñ Orionis through the wrong end of a telescope.
494  TALITHA AUSTRALIS (‡•ü‡§ú Ursae Majoris) A-dwarf whose planets orbit in two ecliptic planes, a consequence of an ancient demarcation dispute.
494  TALITHA BOREALIS (‡•ü‡§õ Ursae Majoris) A pair of A-subgiants orbited by a pair of M-dwarfs. On its worlds, New Year‡§§‡§ï's Eve is a really big deal.
495  TANG (‡•ü‡§ô Serpentis) Vivid orange giant, its bright hue a side-effect of its use as a dumping ground for surplus astronaut refreshments.
495  TANIA AUSTRALIS (‡•ü‡§û Ursae Majoris) Friendly red giant with a cheerful, easygoing chromosphere and a somewhat coarse emission spectrum.
495  TANIA BOREALIS (‡•ü‡§ù Ursae Majoris) Beautiful, frosty white star, all of whose planets orbit at a respectable, if chilly, distance.
495  TARAZED (‡•ü‡§ï Aquilae) Second swan consort of ALTAIR (q.v.), a K-type star whose gas giants sustain vast, blindly floating wings.
496  TAYGETA (19 Tauri) Run-down member of the Pleiades cluster, a blue giant whose system is being gentrified by middle-class renobots.
496  TEEGARDEN'S STAR (J025300.5+165258) Brown dwarf, its asteroids home to slowworms who regard fusion stars as terrifyingly hostile to life.
496  TEGMEN (‡•ü‡§ò Cancri) Quadruple system in which life evolved separately on the worlds of each sun. Exports include gas membranes and diplomats.
496  TEJAT POSTERIOR (‡•ü‡§û Geminorum) Home to a monopod race who await their Messiah, The Many-Kneed, The One With Feet, He Who Shall Kick Arse.
497  TEJAT PRIOR (‡•ü‡§ô Geminorum) A red giant orbited by a blue and yellow dwarf: its planets' sunsets can cause permanent nerve damage.
497  TERTIA STRUTHIONUM (‡§∞Ñ Ceti) G-class star of many names, the Third Hen Ostrich, Durre Menthor (the Spilled Pearls), the Tipsy Astronomer, &amp;c.
497  THABIT (‡§∞Ö Orionis) B-giant, in an example of the fixed-point theorem it is the only star in the Galaxy whose constellations never change.
498  THANIH AL ADZARI (‡•ü‡§°‡§§‡§ë Canis Majoris) Huge and luminous blue giant, its system's inhabitants have not yet noticed the rest of the Galaxy.
498  THEEMIM (‡§∞Ö‡§§‡§ë Eridani) Counterfactual version of BEEMIM (q.v.) created by a cataloguing error aboard a ship with a subjunctive warp drive.
499  THUBAN (‡•ü‡§î Draconis) "Given the means, any species will create dragons; they are, as an ancient poet wrote, a necessary animal." ‡•àÄîYll
499  TIEN KWAN (‡•ü‡§ò Tauri) Giant blue star surrounded by an eternally spiraling density wave, a mighty celestial pinwheel.
500  TORCULARIS SEPTENTRIONALIS (‡•ü‡§° Piscium) G-giant, home to a Nominalist sect; its full name is written on the rings of its largest gas giant.
501  TRAPEZIUM (‡•ü‡§ö‡§§‡§õ Orionis) Volatile cluster of hot blue giants in the Orion supernova works. The responsible demiurge has been rebuked.
501  TUREIS (‡§∞Å Puppis) Example of a Del Scuti variable, its surface moving inwards and outwards as it turns around. That's what it's all about.
501  TYCHO'S STAR (SN 1572) Its connection with the ancient poet is spurious, "Shakespeare" have been proved to be a label for an oral tradition.
502  TYL (‡•ü‡§ó Draconis) Yellow giant, orbited by the planet Owlglass, where trickster deities from across the Galaxy observe their convocations.
502  UKDAH (‡§∞Ñ Hydrae) A tangled filament of the galactic animal has snared this G-class star, around which the manifold shudders and heaves.
502  UNUKALHAI (‡•ü‡§î Serpentis) K-giant, civilisation on its habitable worlds collapsed due to an obsession with feline images or "cataclysm".
502  URODELUS (‡•ü‡§ó Ursae Minoris) G-class giant whose binary companion is feeding off the body of its host, a rare example of stellar cannibalism.
503  USHAKARON (‡•ü‡§† Tauri) Triple system, home to Poet, a nemesis device of such wanton efficacy that many of its employers die of remorse.
503  VAN BIESBROECK'S STAR (V1298 Aquilae) M-dwarf, so dim that some scientists argue that it is not a star but a planet that left its lights on.
503  VAN MAANEN'S STAR (Gliese 35) White dwarf, a ton of its matter could fit in a matchbox, albeit that at 6000K matches were superfluous.
503  VEGA (‡•ü‡§î Lyrae) Home to a refined, talented yet modest race who recently announced their decision to transcend, much to everyone's relief.
504  VINDIEMATRIX (‡•ü‡§ó Virginis) Somewhat dissolute G-giant which has matured in the last million years and now hardly ever stays out all night.
504  WASAT (‡•ü‡§ñ Geminorum) F-subgiant with planetary companion bearing biosphere spectral fingerprint QQQF00F00F0 ("bizarro world")
504  WAZN (‡•ü‡§ë Columbae) K-giant, attacked with a causality weapon, if ever it is not observed in some world's sky it will cease to have existed.
504  WEZEN (‡•ü‡§ñ Canis Majoris) Rare example of a yellow supergiant, a vast crucible of the stellar alchemists, swollen with heavy elements.
505  XESTUS (‡•ü‡§° Velorum) Home to the Xrskh, a race who built many enigmatic megastructures and then transcended to escape their subcontractors.
505  YED POSTERIOR (‡•ü‡§ó Ophiuchi) Blushing red giant, site of the planet Elephantis, consecrated to both speakable and unspeakable pleasures.
505  YED PRIOR (‡•ü‡§ñ Ophiuchi) Gloomy red giant whose worlds are noted for their stern asceticism, a rival to or subsidiary of YED POSTERIOR (q.v.).
505  YILDUN (‡•ü‡§ñ Ursae Minoris) A-dwarf orbited by a lone asteroid, chalk white and ink-shadowed, named the Next-To-Last-Thing.
506  ZANIAH (‡•ü‡§ô Virginis) Very close triple system, lost in an eternal and amicable debate about who actually is in orbit about whom.
524  ZAURAK (‡•ü‡§ï Eridani) Sombre red giant with obsidian planets, onetime seat of an evil overlord, now reinventing itself as an arts precinct.
525  ZAVAJAVA (‡•ü‡§ë Virginis) Tatterdemalion carnival star, strung with marquee moons, the music of its spheres goes to a wheezing old calliope.
525  ZOSMA (‡•ü‡§ñ Leonis) An early attempt to run a solar system on magic which was thwarted when several orders of elementals formed trade unions.
525  ZUBEN ELAKRAB (‡•ü‡§ï Librae) K-subgiant, claw of the galactic animal. When it was unsheathed it scratched and relieved the Great Voidquake.
526  ZUBEN ELAKRIBI (‡•ü‡§ñ Librae) Blue variable, claw of the galactic animal. It is unsheathed as the dark matter thaws in the cosmic spring.
527  ZUBENELGENUBI (‡•ü‡§î Librae) Quintuple system, claw of the galactic animal. When it was unsheathed, predators on all worlds halted; prey fled.
527  ZUBENESCHEMALI (‡•ü‡§ë Librae) Rare blue-green giant, this claw of the galactic animal has not yet been unsheathed.
528  ~EXPLICIT CATALOGUS STELLARUM~

This concludes the catalogue of stars. Thank you for your attention.
